Viper tutorial #0: Introduction

This Viper tutorial is based on the vi tutorial VILEARN.  Some things
works differently in Emacs and corresponding parts of the tutorial has
been changed for this.  There has also been added some basic
information about Emacs that are useful to get started if you already
are a vi user.

This tutorial is a hands-on-tutorial for Viper.  If you want more
information about Viper, please read the VIPER-MANUAL.

Note that if you are using Viper you probably still want to know quite
a bit about Emacs to use Emacs efficiently.  Therefore you can also
run the Emacs tutorial from here - with special support for
Viper. This is part 6 below. You should run this part also to get to
know which Emacs standard key bindings are shadowed by Viper.

The tutorial consists of these parts:

    0 Introduction
      (this file)

    1 Basic Editing
      Covers the handful of commands required to both navigate all
      five tutorials and do basic editing.

    2 Moving Efficiently
      Covers all of the cursor positioning commands. These are the
      commands used later as arguments to editing commands.

    3 Cutting and Pasting
      Introduces the first compound commands, numbering, and copy
      buffers.

    4 Inserting Techniques
      Continues the discussion of compound commands, while completing
      the list of insertion commands first discussed in tutorial one.

    5 Tricks and Timesavers
      This is less a tutorial than a description of common vi commands
      which don't fit correctly into normal logic.

    6 Emacs Tutorial for Viper Users
      Even Viper users use a lot of keys from Emacs.  Therefore you can
      run the Emacs tutorial here too.  It will show you which keys in
      the tutorial that are changed because you are using Viper.  This
      depends of which Viper state you are in, vi state or some insert
      state.  If you switch Viper state the tutorial will immediately
      show which keys are affected.


BUGS
Vilearn has the remark that it "Still doesn't cover variables, ex
commands, or tags.  At least one more tutorial is necessary for a
complete introduction to vi." - I do not think you have to learn those
parts to use Viper. There are other ways to do these things in Emacs!

For more information about vilearn see the the README-FILE.

